Add docs about virtual device (#143)
nanoframework/nanoframework.github.io: content/getting-started-guides/virtual-device.md

# .NET **nanoFramework** Virtual Device

> A .NET **nanoFramework** _Virtual Device_  it's available as a [.NET Core Tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools) allows running nanoCLR in Windows machines. This can be useful for development purposes, performing automated tests on pipelines and other usage scenarios that benefit from having a virtual device opposed to real physical hardware. The virtual device can be accessed just like a real one through a virtual serial port or a TCP/IP port.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A .NET **nanoFramework** _Virtual Device_ is available as a [.NET Tool](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/core/tools/global-tools). It allows to run nanoCLR on Windows machines. This can be useful for development purposes, performing automated tests on pipelines and other usage scenarios that benefit from having a virtual device opposed to real physical hardware. The virtual device can be accessed just like a real one through a virtual serial port or a TCP/IP port.
```

The Visual Studio extension can interact with the .NET **nanoFramework** virtual device just like it does with a real device. It will be listed in Device Explorer window and will offer the same option as a real device.

![virtual device listed in device explorer](../../images/virtual-device/device-explorer-showing-virtual-device.png)

> >> Note: the .NET Core Tool with the **nanoFramework** virtual device it's not exclusive of the Visual Studio extension. It's a global tool that can be use standalone. Read below instructions on how to use it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: the .NET Tool with the **nanoFramework** virtual device is not exclusive of the Visual Studio extension. It's a global tool that can be use standalone. Read below instructions on how to use it.
```

> The serial port that exposes the **nanoFramework** virtual device it's provided by [HHD Software](https://www.hhdsoftware.com/) which has kindly sponsored a free license for running their tool in .NET **nanoFramework** tools.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The serial port that exposes the **nanoFramework** virtual device is provided by [HHD Software](https://www.hhdsoftware.com/) which has kindly sponsored a free license for running their tool in .NET **nanoFramework** tools.
```

## Configuring the Virtual Device

To enable and configure .NET **nanoFramework** virtual device, open the `Settings` configuration dialog in Device Explorer (click on the cog wheel icon in the toolbar). Navigate to the `Virtual Device` tab.

![virtual device configurations](../../images/virtual-device/settings-virtual-device-tab.png)

To enable the Virtual Device, simply check the "Enable Virtual Device" check box. This will start **nanoFramework** virtual device with Visual Studio. If the tool is not installed, Visual Studio will do it in the background. If the Virtual Device is not needed, uncheck the option and it won't be started.

A specific serial port can be configured to expose the Virtual Device. Enter a valid COM port name in the `Serial Port` text box and this will be used. If the virtual serial port doesn't exist yet, it will be created.

The virtual device can be started & stopped by clicking the respective button.

Last configuration pertains the automatic update of the nanoCLR image that the virtual device will be running. To have the tool automatically update and use the latest available version, just enable the checkbox.

> >> Note: if a specific nanoCLR version was installed, the virtual device will use that one. This is useful if you're testing a specific version of a library of firmware version, for example.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> Note: if a specific nanoCLR version was installed, the virtual device will use that one. This is useful if you're testing a specific version of a library of firmware version, for example.
```

```console
nanoclr virtualserial --install
```

## Running the virtual nanoCLR

These options run the nanoCRL instance loading the specified assemblies and exposing the device on a specified interface. Please note that for successfully running a nanoCLR instance it's require to load a set of assemblies _and_ specify an interface to expose it, otherwise it has no use.

### Load a set of assemblies

This loads a set of .NET nanoFramework assemblies and runs the nanoCLR. These have to be in .NET nanoFramework PE (Portable Executable) format.
They are found in the output folder of a Visual Studio project (typically `bin\Debug` or `bin\Release`). Full path of the PE files is required.

```console
nanoclr run --assemblies "C:\nano\my_nice_project\bin\Debug\mscorlib.pe" "C:\nano\my_nice_project\bin\Debug\my_nice_project.pe"
```

### Specify Serial Port

This option specifies the COM port that will be used to expose the virtual nanoCLR that will be running. It requires a previous setup of a Virtual Serial Port (see [Create Virtual Serial port](#create-virtual-serial-port)).

```console

> nanoclr run --serialport COM99  (--assemblies ...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nanoclr run --serialport COM99 (--assemblies ...)
```

```

### Specify Named Pipe

This option specifies a [Named Pipe](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/win32/ipc/named-pipes) that will be used to expose the virtual nanoCLR that will be running.

```console

> nanoclr run --namedpipe MyNanoDevice  (--assemblies ...)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
nanoclr run --namedpipe MyNanoDevice (--assemblies ...)
```

```

### Resolve references

This option tries to resolve cross-assembly references between the loaded assemblies.

```console
nanoclr run --resolve (--assemblies ...)
```

## Maintenance operations with the nanoCLR

> The nanoCLR it's, in fact, a wrapper to the nanoCLR instance that is distributed as DLL so it can be easily updated.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The nanoCLR is, in fact, a wrapper to the nanoCLR instance that is distributed as DLL so it can be easily updated.
```

![virtual device configurations](../../images/virtual-device/settings-virtual-device-tab.png)

To enable the Virtual Device, simply check the "Enable Virtual Device" check box. This will start **nanoFramework** virtual device with Visual Studio. If the tool is not installed, Visual Studio will do it in the background. If the Virtual Device is not needed, uncheck the option and it won't be started.

A specific serial port can be configured to expose the Virtual Device. Enter a valid COM port name in the `Serial Port` text box and this will be used. If the virtual serial port doesn't exist yet, it will be created.

The virtual device can be started & stopped by clicking the respective button.

Last configuration pertains the automatic update of the nanoCLR image that the virtual device will be running. To have the tool automatically update and use the latest available version, just enable the checkbox.

> Note: if a specific nanoCLR version was installed, the virtual device will use that one. This is useful if you're testing a specific version of a library of firmware version, for example.

## Output from Virtual Device

> The output from the virtual device it's made available in Visual Studio Output pane, just select `.NET nanoFramework Virtual Device`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output from the virtual device is made available in Visual Studio Output pane, just select `.NET nanoFramework Virtual Device`.
```
